# 'Aariz: A Benchmark Dataset for Automatic Cephalometric Landmark Detection and CVM Stage Classification
The accurate identification and precise localization of cephalometric landmarks enable the classification and quantification of anatomical abnormalities. The traditional manual way of marking cephalometric landmarks on lateral cephalograms is monotonous and time-consuming job. Endeavours to develop automated landmark detection systems have persistently been made, however, they are inadequate for orthodontic applications due to unavailability of a reliable dataset. We proposed a new state-of-the-art dataset to facilitate the development of robust AI solutions for quantitative morphometric analysis. The dataset includes 1000 lateral cephalometric radiographs (LCRs) obtained from 7 different radiographic imaging devices with varying resolutions, making it the most diverse and comprehensive cephalometric dataset to date. The clinical experts of our team meticulously annotated each radiograph with 29 cephalometric landmarks, including the most significant soft tissue landmarks ever marked in any publicly available dataset. Additionally, our experts also labelled the cervical vertebral maturation (CVM) stage of the patient in a radiograph, making this dataset the first standard resource for CVM classification. The radiographs from each imaging device are uniformly distributed into train, validation and test sets. We believe that this dataset will be instrumental in the development of reliable automated landmark detection frameworks for use in orthodontics and beyond.
